---
author: 'isuamadog'
date: '2022-06-24'
featured: true
headline: 'CHF RY Whore'
image: 'featured/flavor-friday.png'
path: '/flavor-friday/2022-06-24'
title: 'Flavor Review Friday - CHF RY Whore'
---

## CHF RY Whore

**Setup**: mtl STNG 0.8 Ohm 2.0 ID 28/40 clapton 28.5W

**nose:** caramel and maple

**Description:**
10% - Day 1, I got mostly caramel and maple with bits of something bready like waffle or maybe that was the burnt notes and the maple kinda messing with me. There's some kind of pepper vanilla flavor in here that is ruining it for the most part for me. I am going to guess that is some TPA VBIC or something but it's in a small enough amount that I can kinda live with it, I'm assuming, with the slightest amount of anything else added to this. Can't help but feel like these kitchen sink style mixes are ok on their own (minus the 600 pounds of sugar added) but are basically just muddled commercial styled messes. Is it good? Sure, in the same way that if i took a some creamy vanilla, added some caramel, added some marshmallow, added some maple, added some bits of breadiness, added some coffee heavy ry4 and then smothered it in blanket of commercial level cap supersweet might be good... for the first five minutes. The whole thing makes me thirsty and a little frustrated like I mixed some stuff in a bottle and didnt label it and then am trying it out now to figure out how I can fix the recipe just from my memory alone. I never liked RY4 as a flavor to begin with since it feels like you're always locked into a sub par "caramel bacco without the bacco" experience and this one takes the cake. Is it good? I guess. Is it useful? For sure. I could see myself throwing a bit of this at 3-5% on top of any half assed bacco recipe in order to 'save' it. But I can already see hating myself for being so lazy as to use it. Idk, self respect, people. In fact, it's irritating me so much that i think im going to dilute this even before the steep. I dont think I even _want_ to vape any more of this flavor, all because it is sickly sweet. Like I want to go brush my teeth right now. Honestly, it's making me angry just trying to get this taste out of my mouth. I am regretting decisions I have made. I never should have broken up with my college gf. OK, fine, I never shoulda stepped out on you. I'm sorry. This is one of the reasons my life is shit and I'm sitting here like the Godfather mouth stuffed full of cottonballs dipped in sucralose. I want to scrape my tongue before it gets tainted and diseased and falls off.

jfc sorry for the meltdown. Ok, doggo, pull it together. So, what's it taste like? It's a mix of butterscotch and caramel due to the buttery note and burnt notes, with some bready AP that sells more like waffle because of the strong maple undercurrent. I wouldnt be surprised if this were just some biscuit that showed up as a waffle or if it were just a few flavors in such low percents they showed up as a muddy bready tone. There's clearly some peppery vanilla that adds that touch of creamy but it's very slight. Shit, I almost catch whiffs of bourbon in here too. The bottom line is that it is actually pretty tasty if you can don't mind the sugar.

I sadly admit defeat. I will not be letting this one steep since I dont expect that sweetness to lessen.

hows this for a recipe idea:

# [ry saint in the streets](https://alltheflavors.com/recipes/share/2c1d3a94-a5d6-41b3-99d6-23b2bbb8ff1c)

---

mix this and then dump 2% Cap SS on it if you want it to whore around town.

| %   | Vendor | Flavor                                                                                                   |
| --- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0.2 | INW    | [Biscuit](https://alltheflavors.com/flavors/inawera-biscuit)                                             |
| 1   | TPA    | [Kentucky Bourbon](https://alltheflavors.com/flavors/the-flavor-apprentice-kentucky-bourbon)             |
| 0.5 | FA     | [Maple Syrup](https://alltheflavors.com/flavors/flavourart-maple-syrup)                                  |
| 2   | TPA    | [Ry4 Double](https://alltheflavors.com/flavors/the-flavor-apprentice-ry4-double)                         |
| 1   | TPA    | [Vanilla Bean Ice Cream](https://alltheflavors.com/flavors/the-flavor-apprentice-vanilla-bean-ice-cream) |
| 1   | TPA    | [Waffle (belgian)](https://alltheflavors.com/flavors/the-flavor-apprentice-waffle-belgian)               |

anyway, i dont see myself finishing this sample so i dumped out half and im adding 1.5% Vanilla Ruyan Custard, and 0.5% INW Biscuit, 1%hs No5, 0.2 FLV Arabian trying to think of what dry, unsweetened, ap heavy flavors I could use to soak up that sugar and make it useful. Even before the steep at a few days, it was _significantly_ better, and maybe quite good, but that diluted the RYW down to maybe 5% and rendered it into just a generic mapley sweetness which could be better replaced by just some maple and give you control of how much sugar you want to add on top. I'm sure in a week, this will vastly improve by giving that sugar a context, however, it's just not for me. At about a week, I wont lie, it was pretty good. Missing some texture, I really wish I'd added come CAP Graham Cracker for that honey cinnamon golden graham counterpoint. I figured that I'd get enough out of INW biscuit and not willing to try that fucker up any higher, so in the bin of regrets it goes. I'm finishing this and moving on with my life. (All drama aside, it was actually really fricken tasty.)

_Suggested percent:_ I cant imagine this at 20% but that's what Chef's suggests. It's already way too fucken sweet at 10%. Use at 2-5% if you like 1% cap ss in everything you do.

_Pairing ideas:_
Pair this with some flouride at 10% to counteract the tooth decay. Or just use it at 2-5% as a vaguely caramel maple ry4 note where some extra sugar is welcomed. Generally speaking, I find i'd be happier with some other flavors that do the job of adding sweet and deliciously varied nutty creams/caramels/etc while still retaining mixers' rights to control your own sweetness. (wf crispy caramel treats comes to mind.)

**Second Opinions:**
I bought it because them Noted people got me all hyped about CHF RY Castle and I mistakenly got RY Whore instead. I told you, I get what I deserve in this life. I meant it. I saw two recipes on elr that used it. One was a mix of three one shots and the other had more than a few red flags.

## Final Thoughts

Buy this if you want to feel like the mythical sucralose monster broke into your house and took a big saccharine sweet shit in your mouth while you slept. I'd recommend this for anyone who is coming off commercial or likes CAP Super Sweet in your bacco mixes... on top of custards and other sweet flavors. And like to live in a world of self hatred.

In all seriousness though, I enjoyed that mix I did make with it. I'm vaping it happily right now as I type. It's a gentle reminder that expectations can ruin your vaping experience. As a general rule, there are no bad flavors, just gotta find the right application for them according to your tastes.

-i
